README.md, before:

# Pictobox

A Python script that sorts JPEG images in a directory by device make and model info found in EXIF metadata.

Have a large directory full of pictures? Don't know whether you took them on your phone or your camera? If you answered yes to either of these questions, Pictobox could help you out.

Ideas for new features and pull requests are always welcome.

## How to use:

Install the `exif` module:
```sh
pip install exif
```
Run the script:
```sh
python3 pictobox.py
```

### Optional arguments:
- `--dir` or `-d`: Provide a path to another directory with images on which to run the script
- `--arrange` or `-a`: Create a directory with images arranged into subdirectories by make and model
- `--sorted` or `-s`: Specify a custom name for the directory with sorted images (Default: `sorted-images`)
- `--output` or `-o`: Specify the name of a file to which to write JSON output

### Output:
The script outputs a formatted JSON object with the following format:
```json
{
    "<make>-<model>": [
        "<image1.jpeg>",
        "<image2.jpeg>"
    ],
    "<make>-<model>": [
        "<image1.jpeg>",
        "<image2.jpeg>"
    ],
    "Unknown": [
        "<image1.jpeg>",
        "<image2.jpeg>"
    ]
}
```

This output can be written to a file if desired (see optional arguments above).

### Example:
```sh
python3 pictobox.py --arrange --dir ~/Pictures > output.json
```

Commit message:

make script executable and update readme

README.md, after:

# Pictobox

A Python script that sorts JPEG images in a directory by device make and model info found in EXIF metadata.

Have a large directory full of pictures? Don't know whether you took them on your phone or your camera? If you answered yes to either of these questions, Pictobox could help you out.

Ideas for new features and pull requests are always welcome.

## How to use:

Install the `exif` module:
```sh
pip install exif
```
Run the script:
```sh
./pictobox.py
```

*NOTE: If the above doesn't work, either run* `chmod +x pictobox.py` *first or just run* `python3 pictobox.py` *instead. You may have to check your installation of Python 3.*

### Optional arguments:
- `--dir` or `-d`: Provide a path to another directory with images on which to run the script
- `--arrange` or `-a`: Create a directory with images arranged into subdirectories by make and model
- `--sorted` or `-s`: Specify a custom name for the directory with sorted images (Default: `sorted-images`)
- `--output` or `-o`: Specify the name of a file to which to write JSON output

Both the directory with sorted images and the output JSON file are created in the target directory of the script.

### Output:
The script outputs a formatted JSON object with the following format:
```json
{
    "<make>-<model>": [
        "<image1.jpeg>",
        "<image2.jpeg>"
    ],
    "<make>-<model>": [
        "<image1.jpeg>",
        "<image2.jpeg>"
    ],
    "Unknown": [
        "<image1.jpeg>",
        "<image2.jpeg>"
    ]
}
```

This output can be written to a file if desired (see optional arguments above).

### Example:
```sh
./pictobox.py --arrange --dir ~/Pictures --sorted output-images --output output.json
```
